all in all this a great player that blows the i-pod away , with easy to use and understand features , software that is simple to understand and use , and a great sound ( which is all that matters in a mp3 player ) . 
the software is very easy to use , and within 30 minutes of opening my box , i was out and about listening to any one of my 80 cds . 
i had no problems setting up the software and getting my favorite cd 's transferred . 
i 've had no problems with the software . 
the software hasn't been a hassle for me at all . 
many people have written about the software being its one downfall , personally i haven't had a single problem with the software , i 'm running windows me . 
the software couldn't be better and the mp3 player works like a dream , i couldn't give this anything but a 5 , i wish there was a 6 . 
the software is quick & easy to use & i found the entire process very easily mastered . 
the new organizer software that ships with the nomad zen xtra couldn't be easier to use . 
many have complained about the software included but in my opinion it 's easy to use and effective . 
the software interface supplied was very easy to use but i went ahead and got red chair 's " notmad " software because of some advanced features i wanted . 
d ) software is another great misfortune -- hard to operate , crashes frequently , screwed my music library up , doesnt work with mp4s , the list goes on and onthe software failed repeatedly . 
also , i can 't understand why the software does not ignore " the " when it lists the cds in alphabetical order . 
finally the software used to put all the songs into it is vastly inferior to itunes on two levels , first it is poorly integrated into the overall player and clunky to use especially with tagging and second the wma audio format sucks , flat out sucks in terms of sound quality compared with the vastly superior aac format the apple ipod uses and it sticks you with one of the sub par paid music services such as napster instead of allowing to use the itunes store , which , if you ever plan to pay for your music , is by far the best . 
software definitely sucks , hangs up my notebook about half the time , but i don't mind buying notmad . 
the creative software is awkward / difficult to use and just plain doesn't load on some computers . 
